docs/index.md, before:

# Overview

<div align="center">

<img src="https://github.com/EgydioBNeto/conventional-commits-generator/assets/84047984/53f38934-16bb-40f6-aff7-a5800c4bd706" width="300px"/>

<p>
  <a href="https://www.python.org/downloads/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9+-blue.svg" alt="Python 3.9+"></a>
  <a href="https://badge.fury.io/py/conventional-commits-generator"><img src="https://badge.fury.io/py/conventional-commits-generator.svg" alt="PyPI version"></a>
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg" alt="License: MIT"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/EgydioBNeto/conventional-commits-generator/actions"><img src="https://github.com/EgydioBNeto/conventional-commits-generator/workflows/Tests/badge.svg" alt="Tests"></a>
</p>

</div>

---

## What is CCG?

**Conventional Commits Generator (CCG)** is a powerful command-line interface tool that helps developers create standardized git commit messages following the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification. Say goodbye to inconsistent commit messages and embrace a professional, standardized workflow.

---

## Key Features

- **Interactive Interface** - Beautiful, user-friendly prompts guide you through creating perfect commit messages every time

- **Emoji Support** - Optional GitHub-compatible emoji codes make your commits visually expressive and easy to scan

- **Advanced Git Operations** - Edit, delete, and manage commits with intelligent history rewriting and safety checks

- **Tag Management** - Create and push semantic version tags with annotated messages

- **Flexible Workflows** - Work with specific paths, multiple repositories, and various git workflows seamlessly

- **Pre-commit Integration** - Automatic detection and execution of pre-commit hooks for code quality assurance

---

## Why Use CCG?

!!! success "Benefits"
    - **Consistency**: Standardized commits across your team
    - **Clarity**: Clear commit messages make code review easier
    - **Safety**: Built-in validation and confirmation prompts

!!! tip "Perfect For"
    - Open source projects
    - Team collaborations
    - Professional development workflows
    - Projects using semantic versioning
    - Automated release processes

Commit message:

:sparkles: feat!: implement comprehensive caching, logging, and testing infrastructure
Add complete infrastructure for production-grade features:
- Cache system (cache.py) for git metadata optimization
- Structured logging (logging.py) with file rotation
- Progress tracking (progress.py) with spinner animations
- Git strategies (git_strategies.py) for commit editing
- Repository abstraction layer (repository.py)
- Complete unit test suite (+9000 lines)
- Integration tests for end-to-end workflows

BREAKING CHANGE: Major architectural changes may affect existing integrations

docs/index.md, after:

# Overview

<div align="center">

<img src="https://github.com/EgydioBNeto/conventional-commits-generator/assets/84047984/53f38934-16bb-40f6-aff7-a5800c4bd706" width="300px"/>

<p>
  <a href="https://www.python.org/downloads/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9+-blue.svg" alt="Python 3.9+"></a>
  <a href="https://badge.fury.io/py/conventional-commits-generator"><img src="https://badge.fury.io/py/conventional-commits-generator.svg" alt="PyPI version"></a>
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg" alt="License: MIT"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/EgydioBNeto/conventional-commits-generator/actions"><img src="https://github.com/EgydioBNeto/conventional-commits-generator/workflows/Tests/badge.svg" alt="Tests"></a>
</p>

</div>

---

## What is CCG?

**Conventional Commits Generator (CCG)** is a powerful command-line interface tool that helps developers create standardized git commit messages following the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification. Say goodbye to inconsistent commit messages and embrace a professional, standardized workflow.

---

## Key Features

- **Interactive Interface** - Beautiful, user-friendly prompts guide you through creating perfect commit messages every time

- **Emoji Support** - Optional GitHub-compatible emoji codes make your commits visually expressive and easy to scan

- **Advanced Git Operations** - Edit, delete, and manage commits with intelligent history rewriting and safety checks

- **Tag Management** - Create and push semantic version tags with annotated messages

- **Flexible Workflows** - Work with specific paths, multiple repositories, and various git workflows seamlessly

- **Pre-commit Integration** - Automatic detection and execution of pre-commit hooks for code quality assurance

- **Debug Logging** - Comprehensive logging system with verbose mode for troubleshooting and debugging

---

## Why Use CCG?

!!! success "Benefits"
    - **Consistency**: Standardized commits across your team
    - **Clarity**: Clear commit messages make code review easier
    - **Safety**: Built-in validation and confirmation prompts

!!! tip "Perfect For"
    - Open source projects
    - Team collaborations
    - Professional development workflows
    - Projects using semantic versioning
    - Automated release processes
